## Role Abuse
- With several components in Azure, there are several different avenues for attacks within the platform. These attack vectors leverage misconfigurations or design flaws
- Most major attacks revolve around abusing certain roles and resources within Azure in order to leverage them from a privilege escalation and an overall data extraction standpoint.
#### Reader
- The Reader role has read-only access for components in Azure (Subscriptions, Policies, Resources, etc.) This by itself can grant an attacker useful information. For example, if the attacker compromises an account with Reader privileges, they can read Runbooks. Runbooks fall under the “Automation Accounts” resource.
- As a Reader, you can also read several other resource’s details to search for hard-coded credentials or other potentially interesting information, including:
	- Logic apps
	- Deployment Templates
	- Virtual Networks (Potentially useful to view new targets/address spaces)
	- Export Templates on Virtual Machines
	- Connection Strings in Azure SQL
	- Configurations on several other resources/applications
- Readers have access to all of the **PowerZure** functions that can be found [here](https://powerzure.readthedocs.io/en/latest/Functions/infogathering.html).
#### Contributor
- Contributor role allows you to actually edit resources and services within Azure, instead of just reading properties.
- Several attack vectors are present from the Contributor role that can be exploited with **PowerZure**.
	- `Execute-Command` will execute a supplied command on a targeted VM. As Contributor, these commands are executed as SYSTEM.
	- `Execute-MSBuild` is a function that will take in a MSBuild payload and execute it. By default, Windows VMs deployed with Azure’s templates will have .NET 4.0 installed.
	- `Execute-Program` will upload and execute any file that is supplied.
	- `Get-AllKeyVaultContents` will automatically go through a Key Vault, check for access, and print the results of any secrets, keys, or certificates. By default, Key Vaults only allow access to their owners, however if a user has Global Contributor, they can edit the access policies on the Key Vault and give themselves access. PowerZure does this automatically.
	- `Get-AllAppSecrets` will return all passwords or certificate credentials for any Application that has them stored.
	- `Get-AllSecrets` is a catch-all; it will run return all Key Vault secrets/keys/credentials, App Secrets, and Automation Account Run-as credentials.
	- `Get-AvailableVMDisks` will list the available disks that are downloadable. This can then give the information needed for
	- `Get-VMDisk` which will generate a URL to download that disk. A fair warning, though, disks can be massive in size.
#### Owner
- Owners can do everything a Contributor can do, but they have one additional feature: They can also give permission to a resource they own. This is particularly useful as an attacker because it provides many opportunities to create a backdoor into a resource. For example, if an Owner controls a Virtual Machine resource, they can explicitly grant any user Owner status over that Virtual Machine.
- In PowerZure, this is accomplished via the `Set-Role` function. In addition, existing roles can be checked via `Get-RolesUser` function.
	- `Set-Role -Role Contributor -User test@contoso.com -Resource Win10VMTest`
#### **Administrator**
- Administrators over a subscription have the ability to do everything an Owner can, plus create additional users and groups within Azure AD. They also have the ability to assign roles for the subscription.
- **PowerZure** has the ability to utilize an Administrator account to create a backdoor with a Runbook.
	- `Create-Backdoor` , when executed, will create a Runbook. Inside the Runbook is instructions to create a new user and assign them to the Owner role, then generate a Webhook which will output a URI. This URI can then be passed into Execute-Backdoor.
	- `Execute-Backdoor` will execute the Runbook. An attacker will create a backdoor in case the current account that is in use has it’s password changed. With Administrator role needed to create a user, a new co-administrator should be made as well to achieve this in the Runbook, in case credentials to the user in the Administrator role are changed.